---
title: node-cron定时执行
date: 2021-02-18
author: xb18
tags:
  - Node

---

# 安装



```shell
npm install cron
```

# 开始

```javascript
const CronJob = require('cron').CronJob;
const job = new CronJob(
	'* * * * * *',
	function() {
		console.log('You will see this message every second');
	},
	null,
	true,
	'America/Los_Angeles'
);
// Use this if the 4th param is default value(false)
// job.start()
```

# cron时间语法

```
秒：0-59
分钟：0-59
小时：0-23
天：1-31
月份：0-11（1月至12月）
星期几：0-6（周日至周六）
```

排列顺序：
秒 分钟 小时 天 月份 星期几

```
*为通配符
-为时间段连接符
,号为分隔符，可以在某一节输入多个值
/号为步进符   
```

# API

Parameter Based

- `job` - shortcut to `new cron.CronJob()`.

- `time` - shortcut to `new cron.CronTime()`.

- `sendAt` - tells you when a `CronTime` will be run.

- `timeout` - tells you when the next timeout is.

- ```
  CronJob
  ```

  - ```
    constructor(cronTime, onTick, onComplete, start, timezone, context, runOnInit, utcOffset, unrefTimeout)
    ```

     

    \- Of note, the first parameter here can be a JSON object that has the below names and associated types (see examples above).

    - `cronTime` - [REQUIRED] - The time to fire off your job. This can be in the form of cron syntax or a JS [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) object.
    - `onTick` - [REQUIRED] - The function to fire at the specified time. If an `onComplete` callback was provided, `onTick` will receive it as an argument. `onTick` may call `onComplete` when it has finished its work.
    - `onComplete` - [OPTIONAL] - A function that will fire when the job is stopped with `job.stop()`, and may also be called by `onTick` at the end of each run.
    - `start` - [OPTIONAL] - Specifies whether to start the job just before exiting the constructor. By default this is set to false. If left at default you will need to call `job.start()` in order to start the job (assuming `job` is the variable you set the cronjob to). This does not immediately fire your `onTick` function, it just gives you more control over the behavior of your jobs.
    - `timeZone` - [OPTIONAL] - Specify the timezone for the execution. This will modify the actual time relative to your timezone. If the timezone is invalid, an error is thrown. You can check all timezones available at [Moment Timezone Website](http://momentjs.com/timezone/). Probably don't use both. `timeZone` and `utcOffset` together or weird things may happen.
    - `context` - [OPTIONAL] - The context within which to execute the onTick method. This defaults to the cronjob itself allowing you to call `this.stop()`. However, if you change this you'll have access to the functions and values within your context object.
    - `runOnInit` - [OPTIONAL] - This will immediately fire your `onTick` function as soon as the requisite initialization has happened. This option is set to `false` by default for backwards compatibility.
    - `utcOffset` - [OPTIONAL] - This allows you to specify the offset of your timezone rather than using the `timeZone` param. Probably don't use both `timeZone` and `utcOffset` together or weird things may happen.
    - `unrefTimeout` - [OPTIONAL] - If you have code that keeps the event loop running and want to stop the node process when that finishes regardless of the state of your cronjob, you can do so making use of this parameter. This is off by default and cron will run as if it needs to control the event loop. For more information take a look at [timers#timers_timeout_unref](https://nodejs.org/api/timers.html#timers_timeout_unref) from the NodeJS docs.

  - `start` - Runs your job.

  - `stop` - Stops your job.

  - `setTime` - Stops and changes the time for the `CronJob`. Param must be a `CronTime`.

  - `lastDate` - Tells you the last execution date.

  - `nextDates` - Provides an array of the next set of dates that will trigger an `onTick`.

  - `fireOnTick` - Allows you to override the `onTick` calling behavior. This matters so only do this if you have a really good reason to do so.

  - `addCallback` - Allows you to add `onTick` callbacks.

- ```
  CronTime
  ```

  - ```
    constructor(time)
    ```

    - `time` - [REQUIRED] - The time to fire off your job. This can be in the form of cron syntax or a JS [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) object.

# 示例

### 每分钟10s执行

```javascript
const CronJob = require('cron').CronJob;
new CronJob('10 * * * * *', function() {
    const d = new Date();
	console.log(d);
}, null, true);
```

### 间隔10s执行

```javascript
const CronJob = require('cron').CronJob;
new CronJob('*/10 * * * * *', function() {
    const d = new Date();
	console.log(d);
}, null, true);
```

> github文档：https://github.com/kelektiv/node-cron